README.md, before:

# Ward (Local-First Git Guard)

**Ward** is a high-performance, zero-server CLI tool and Git hook designed to prevent developers from accidentally pushing sensitive data (Private Keys, Mnemonics, API Keys) to GitHub.

## 🚀 Features

- **Zero Friction:** Scans _staged_ files in < 50ms (ignoring working directory changes).
- **Privacy First:** All scanning happens locally. No data leaves your machine.
- **Smart Detection:**
  - **Ethereum Private Keys**
  - **BIP-39 Mnemonics**
  - **Generic API Keys**
  - **.env Files** (Blocks `.env`, `.env.local`, etc. Allows `.example`/`.sample`)
  - **High Entropy Strings** (with false positive filtering)
- **Configurable:** Ignore specific files via `.wardignore` or `ward.toml`.

## 📦 Installation

### fast way (npx)

```bash
# Initialize Ward in your current repository
npx git-ward init
```

### From Source (Rust)

```bash
cargo install --path .
ward init
```

## 🛠 Usage

Once initialized, Ward runs automatically as a `pre-commit` hook.

### Automatic Scanning

Just use `git commit` as normal. If you try to commit a secret:

```bash
git commit -m "oops"
```

**Output:**

```
Ward detected sensitive data in your commit:
  ✖ secret.key:1: Ethereum Private Key
    Code: 0x12...cdef
  ✖ secret.key:1: High Entropy (4.05)
    Code: 0x12...cdef

Commit blocked. Remove the secrets or use 'git commit --no-verify' to bypass.
```

### Manual Scan

You can also run a scan manually without committing:

```bash
ward scan
```

## ⚙️ Configuration (`ward.toml`)

Create a `ward.toml` in your project root to customize behavior:

```toml
# ward.toml
exclude = ["secrets.txt", "*.lock"]
skip_entropy_checks = ["*.min.js", "node_modules/"]
threshold = 4.5

[[rules]]
name = "My Custom Token"
regex = "MYTOKEN-[0-9]{5}"
```

### Using `.wardignore`

You can also create a standard `.wardignore` file in your project root (works like `.gitignore`):

```text
secrets.txt
generated/
*.log
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: add uninstallation, CI/CD, and contributing sections to README, and update SPECS with installation details and completed verification items.

README.md, after:

# Ward (Local-First Git Guard)

**Ward** is a high-performance, zero-server CLI tool and Git hook designed to prevent developers from accidentally pushing sensitive data (Private Keys, Mnemonics, API Keys) to GitHub.

## 🚀 Features

- **Zero Friction:** Scans _staged_ files in < 50ms (ignoring working directory changes).
- **Privacy First:** All scanning happens locally. No data leaves your machine.
- **Smart Detection:**
  - **Ethereum Private Keys**
  - **BIP-39 Mnemonics**
  - **Generic API Keys**
  - **.env Files** (Blocks `.env`, `.env.local`, etc. Allows `.example`/`.sample`)
  - **High Entropy Strings** (with false positive filtering)
- **Configurable:** Ignore specific files via `.wardignore` or `ward.toml`.

## 📦 Installation

### fast way (npx)

```bash
# Initialize Ward in your current repository
npx git-ward init
```

### From Source (Rust)

```bash
cargo install --path .
ward init
```

## 🛠 Usage

Once initialized, Ward runs automatically as a `pre-commit` hook.

### Automatic Scanning

Just use `git commit` as normal. If you try to commit a secret:

```bash
git commit -m "oops"
```

**Output:**

```
Ward detected sensitive data in your commit:
  ✖ secret.key:1: Ethereum Private Key
    Code: 0x12...cdef
  ✖ secret.key:1: High Entropy (4.05)
    Code: 0x12...cdef

Commit blocked. Remove the secrets or use 'git commit --no-verify' to bypass.
```

### Manual Scan

You can also run a scan manually without committing:

```bash
ward scan
```

## 🗑 Uninstallation

To remove the Git hook:

```bash
# Run this in your repo root
rm .git/hooks/pre-commit
# Or if you have other hooks, edit .git/hooks/pre-commit and manually remove the ward lines
```

## 🤖 CI/CD Integration

You can run Ward in your CI pipeline to prevent secrets from being merged.

### GitHub Actions

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v3
  - run: npx git-ward scan
```

## ⚙️ Configuration (`ward.toml`)

Create a `ward.toml` in your project root to customize behavior:

```toml
# ward.toml
exclude = ["secrets.txt", "*.lock"]
skip_entropy_checks = ["*.min.js", "node_modules/"]
threshold = 4.5

[[rules]]
name = "My Custom Token"
regex = "MYTOKEN-[0-9]{5}"
```

### Using `.wardignore`

You can also create a standard `.wardignore` file in your project root (works like `.gitignore`):

```text
secrets.txt
generated/
*.log
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a PR on GitHub.

## License

MIT
